---
layout: post
title: 80/20
date: 2020-04-30 22:00:00
permalink: /8020/
categories: 
tags: [Personal] 
last_modified_at: 
---

>"She'd decided that about eighty percent of what you believe about yourself when you're twenty turns out to be wrong. The problem is you don't know what your small true part is until much later"
> Nathan Hill, The Nix (2016)

This is James from 2020. I'm not 20 yet, but I'm only about a month off. This quote was something that resonated with me while rereading The Nix. I've recently been doing some more thinking into who I am, what I am, what I stand for. Those kinds of questions. 

So, this is my honest opinion of myself at almost 20. If I don't write it down now, there's no telling what my brain will twist and change in my memory.

tldr: I think I'm selfless, above average intelligence, but not a genius, a hard worker who takes on too much responsibility, someone who secretly craves validation, for feats of determination -- the deeper, more challenging accomplishments, not the surface level ones -- and hopefully, a good person. 

1. I think I'm relentlessly selfless. I think this sentiment runs deeper than just the "oh wow you earned Presidential Service Awards since 7th grade?" Maybe it was 6th, I don't remember. And while yes, I did do a lot of volunteering in high school and I truly did enjoy it, I think there's more to it than that. Sometimes it feels so central to who I am that it's hidden in plain sight. My selflessness compels me to continue trying to get back into ROTC, as a personal sacrifice for other trans people who may not be as fortunate as me. It's manifested as a drive to write and work until 1 AM writing 20 pages of study material for scouting (despite holding no leadership position *insert ref*). Oftentimes I volunteer myself for too much, knowing that I won't break under the work, stress, and pressure, so that others can be more comfortable. On one hand I think this is a positive trait, but I am aware that too an extent it is self destructive. 

2. I truly don't know what to think about my intelligence anymore. I think that I'm less of an asshole about it than I was in high school, where I was so clearly doing better academically than 99% of my peers. Now, I don't feel nearly as close to that top 1%, but I do think that I am smarter than a decent number of my classmates. I also don't know how much of my academic success can be attributed to my raw intellect versus my work ethic. I have clear memories of other students back in high school, who could write full papers, do full research projects practically overnight. It seemed like they were on another level in that regard. Meanwhile, I can't say that I've necessarily tried that approach. Most times I dutifully do my work ahead of time. Moreover, schoolwork doesn't come as naturally to me as it once used to. I remember my senior year of high school, when the conceptual E&M questions in physics seemed to stump everyone, they came strangely natural to me. Now I think I feel like how my peers did back then. While doing homework I'll have to pore back over class notes, run through a few examples in MATLAB to try to understand the underlying principles at play. My roommate seems to still be able to just look at problems and understand what was happening in them. I'm now questioning whether or not it's because the material is harder, or if I've gotten dumber.

3. I like to think I have a good work ethic, most of the time at least. There are points where I do burn out, and my infallible drive momentarily pops out of gear, but I feel I can typically recover in a week or so. I may not completely finish my work as dutifully as I once did, but I still start early on all my assignments, and can fairly appropriately pace myself on how much work I need to get done. The one place where this lapses, is I might sleep too much. Oh well. I think it just has something to do with working at home. At school I can usually force myself to grind through work in ANSYS if I get tired and work a full 0445 to 2330 day. 

4. I have a streak of pride in me that I really hate. I often think about once I get back into ROTC whether or not I'll have a story written about me, whether I'll make the papers like the other cadet in Texas. I know I'm not doing ROTC for the fame, but on some base level I want to be acknowledged for my work. My friends tell me it's normal to feel this way, but I still feel pretty guilty about it. I don't think it helps that I have been thinking about writing a book about myself for years. That itself seems inherently prideful. I think it might have to do with the way a lot of my successes on the surface are brushed off due to my intelligence. It easier to just say I've accomplished a lot for being smart, but I wish I got some recognition for my grit too. I think my ability to withstand incredible amounts of pain, suffering, stress is infinitely more impressive than whatever intelligence I was born with. If I wrote about my experiences, people might see a different side of me that's been riddled with trials and tribulations that show my accomplishments being more than feats of intellect.

5. Typically I go about life pretty fearless, I like to think. Normal things like spiders, the dark, small spaces, death I'm fine with. The fears I really have are the fear of letting people down, and the fear of not being a good person. I think that first one goes back and ties into the selflessness thing. Fear is a great motivator, and I guess one of the reasons I go to such great lengths to help others. The fear of not being a good person is a bit trickier. There's the whole "every bad guy thinks he's the good guy from his perspective" and what's objectively good is so hard to determine. I know I've done bad things, but do the ends justify the means? What are the right ends? Does doing bad things make you a bad person? If not, where does that distinction come from?