---
layout: post
title: The Nix and the Night Circus
date: 2020-04-29 22:00:00
permalink: /nixnightcircus/
categories: 
tags: [Books] 
last_modified_at: 
---

This past month I finished 2 books (I'm still working through Crime and Punishment, please cut me some slack the Russian is a little mentally exhausting). One of them, the Night Circus by Erin Morgenstern, was exhausting, not in the way that C&P is, but in the fact it was painful to read. The other book, The Nix by Nathan Hill, was a pure joy to reread and I loved tying together the details I hadn't caught on my first reading. 

Let's start with the Night Circus. The book itself is relatively slow, the plot plods along, which isn't inherently bad as the language is incredibly descriptive; however, the characters are flat, and worse, easy to dislike. The two main characters have no defining features to them. I finished this book around a week ago, but all I can tell you about the main characters are as follows:

1. Marco has beautiful green eyes
2. Marco led a girl on for years and seems to have no remorse
3. Celia has daddy issues

I can't tell you anything else about these characters. Removed from the context of their story, I have no idea of how they would act. *These characters aren't people -- they are objects used to further a narrative.* In the second half of the novel, their "love story" made me feel absolutely disgusted. Love in the context of this book is something that's magical (how fitting), a simple story of two people who are just *meant to be*. This naïve interpretation of love detracted from the entire story in my opinion. 

Let's contrast this with the occurrences of love found in The Nix. Now, love could certainly be considered a theme in The Nix, and it could be argued to an extent that the entire book is about love. The difference between these novels is that The Nix treats is as a theme, with all the grown-up-big-boy responsibility that entails, while the Night Circus uses love as a plot device. The Nix shows love in a myriad of ways, from idolization, to a desire to fit in, to regret and longing, at the edge, where love begins to break down. 

We get to look at love through a wide, varied cast of flawed characters -- from Samuel, chasing a childhood sweetheart he treats reverently, to his mother Faye, caught trying to please those around her and be loved. 

There's a million other angles I could talk about The Nix from, but relative to the Night Circus, this feels the most applicable. 2 years ago, I probably would've simply praised it on its approachable, yet clever writing -- a chapter devoted entirely to rhetoric, another 14 page chapter captured in just 2 sentences -- but now the books themes speak to me far louder than it's words.

I don't want to ruin the absolute pleasure it is to read the Nix. I truly suggest you read it for yourself. It can be simple and funny, with clever jabs poking at America's political climate, our consumerist culture, but it can also be a deep introspection into love and regret. 